.\"
.\" ipp3dprinter man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2014-2019 by Apple Inc.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH ipp3dprinter 1 "CUPS" "26 September 2019" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
ipp3dprinter \- an ipp 3d printer application
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ipp3dprinter
[
.B \-\-help
] [
.B \-\-no\-web\-forms
] [
.B \-\-version
] [
.B \-D
.I device-uri
] [
.B \-K
.I keypath
] [
.B \-M
.I manufacturer
] [
.B \-a
.I filename.conf
] [
.B \-c
.I command
] [
.B \-d
.I spool-directory
] [
.B \-f
.I type/subtype[,...]
] [
.B \-i
.I iconfile.png
] [
.B \-k
] [
.B \-l
.I location
] [
.B \-m
.I model
] [
.B \-n
.I hostname
] [
.B \-p
.I port
] [
.B \-r
.I subtype[,subtype]
] [
.B \-v[vvv]
]
.I service-name
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ipp3dprinter
is a simple Internet Printing Protocol (IPP) server conforming to the IPP 3D Printing Extensions (PWG 5100.21) specification.
It can be used to test client software or act as a very basic print server that runs a command for every job that is printed.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are recognized by
.B ipp3dprinter:
.TP 5
.B \-\-help
Show program usage.
.TP 5
.B \-\-no\-web\-forms
Disable the web interface forms used to update the media and supply levels.
.TP 5
.B \-\-version
Show the CUPS version.
.TP 5
\fB\-D \fIdevice-uri\fR
Set the device URI for print output.
The URI can be a filename, directory, or a network socket URI of the form "socket://ADDRESS[:PORT]" (where the default port number is 9100).
When specifying a directory,
.B ipp3dprinter
will create an output file using the job ID and name.
.TP 5
\fB\-M \fImanufacturer\fR
Set the manufacturer of the printer.
The default is "Example".
.TP 5
\fB\-c \fIcommand\fR
Run the specified command for each document that is printed.
If "command" is not an absolute path ("/path/to/command"),
.B ipp3dprinter
looks for the command in the "command" subdirectory of the CUPS binary directory, typically /usr/lib/cups/command or /usr/libexec/cups/command.
The
.BR cups-config (1)
command can be used to discover the correct binary directory ("cups-config --serverbin").
In addition, the CUPS_SERVERBIN environment variable can be used to override the default location of this directory - see the
.BR cups (1)
man page for more details.
.TP 5
\fB\-d \fIspool-directory\fR
Specifies the directory that will hold the print files.
The default is a directory under the user's current temporary directory.
.TP 5
\fB\-f \fItype/subtype[,...]\fR
Specifies a list of MIME media types that the server will accept.
The default depends on the type of printer created.
.TP 5
\fB\-i \fIiconfile.png\fR
Specifies the printer icon file for the server.
The file must be a PNG format image.
The default is an internally-provided PNG image.
.TP 5
.B \-k
Keeps the print documents in the spool directory rather than deleting them.
.TP 5
\fB\-l \fIlocation\fR
Specifies the human-readable location string that is reported by the server.
The default is the empty string.
.TP 5
\fB\-m \fImodel\fR
Specifies the model name of the printer.
The default is "Printer".
.TP 5
\fB\-n \fIhostname\fR
Specifies the hostname that is reported by the server.
The default is the name returned by the
.BR hostname (1)
command.
.TP 5
\fB\-p \fIport\fR
Specifies the port number to listen on.
The default is a user-specific number from 8000 to 8999.
.TP 5
\fB\-r \fIsubtype[,subtype]\fR
Specifies the DNS-SD subtype(s) to advertise.
Separate multiple subtypes with a comma.
The default is "_print".
.TP 5
.B \-v[vvv]
Be (very) verbose when logging activity to standard error.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The
.B ipp3dprinter
program returns 1 if it is unable to process the command-line arguments or register the IPP service.
Otherwise
.B ipp3dprinter
will run continuously until terminated.
.SH CONFORMING TO
The
.B ipp3dprinter
program is unique to CUPS and conforms to the IPP 3D Printing Extensions (PWG 5100.21) specification.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B ipp3dprinter
adds environment variables starting with "IPP_" for all IPP Job attributes in the print request.
For example, when executing a command for an IPP Job containing the "materials-col" Job Template attribute, the "IPP_MATERIALS_COL" environment variable will be set to the value of that attribute.
.LP
In addition, all IPP "xxx-default" and "pwg-xxx" Printer Description attributes are added to the environment.
For example, the "IPP_MATERIALS_COL_DEFAULT" environment variable will be set to the default value for the "materials-col" Job Template attribute.
.LP
Enumerated values are converted to their keyword equivalents.
For example, a "print-quality" Job Template attribute with a enum value of 3 will become the "IPP_PRINT_QUALITY" environment variable with a value of "draft".
This string conversion only happens for standard Job Template attributes, currently "finishings" and "print-quality".
.LP
Finally, the "CONTENT_TYPE" environment variable contains the MIME media type of the document being printed and the "DEVICE_URI" environment variable contains the device URI as specified with the "\-D" option.
.SH COMMAND OUTPUT
Unless they communicate directly with a printer, print commands send printer-ready data to the standard output.
.LP
Print commands can send messages back to
.B ipp3dprinter
on the standard error with one of the following prefixes:
.TP 5
\fBATTR: \fIattribute=value[ attribute=value]\fR
Sets the named attribute(s) to the given values.
Currently only the "printer-alert" and "printer-alert-description" Printer Status attributes can be set.
.TP 5
\fBDEBUG: \fIDebugging message\fR
Logs a debugging message if at least two \-v's have been specified.
.TP 5
\fBERROR: \fIError message\fR
Logs an error message and copies the message to the "job-state-message" attribute.
.TP 5
\fBINFO: \fIInformational message\fR
Logs an informational/progress message if \-v has been specified and copies the message to the "job-state-message" attribute unless an error has been reported.
.TP 5
\fBSTATE: \fIkeyword[,keyword,...]\fR
Sets the printer's "printer-state-reasons" attribute to the listed keywords.
.TP 5
\fBSTATE: -\fIkeyword[,keyword,...]\fR
Removes the listed keywords from the printer's "printer-state-reasons" attribute.
.TP 5
\fBSTATE: +\fIkeyword[,keyword,...]\fR
Adds the listed keywords to the printer's "printer-state-reasons" attribute.
.SH EXAMPLES
Run
.B ipp3dprinter
with a service name of My Cool Printer:
.nf

    ipp3dprinter "My Cool Printer"
.fi
.LP
Run the
.BR file (1)
command whenever a job is sent to the server:
.nf

    ipp3dprinter \-c /usr/bin/file "My Cool Printer"
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
PWG Internet Printing Protocol Workgroup (http://www.pwg.org/ipp)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2007-2019 by Apple Inc.
