.\"
.\" ippdoclint man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2018-2019 by the IEEE-ISTO Printer Working Group.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH ippdoclint 1 "ippsample" "2019-05-17" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
ippdoclint \- check common document formats
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ippdoclint
[
.B \-\-help
] [
.B \-\-version
] [
.B \-i
.I input/format
] [
.B \-o
.I "name=value [... name=value]"
] [
.B \-v
]
.I filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ippdoclint
checks the input file for format errors and reports the number of impressions (sides), sheets, and (input) pages in the file.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are recognized by
.B ippdoclint:
.TP 5
.B \-\-help
Shows program help.
.TP 5
.B \-\-version
Shows program version.
.TP 5
.BI \-i \ input/format
Specifies the MIME media type of the input file.
Currently the "application/pdf" (PDF), "image/jpeg" (JPEG), "image/pwg-raster" (PWG Raster), and "image/urf" (Apple Raster) MIME media types are supported.
.TP 5
.BI \-o \ "name=value [... name=value]"
Specifies one or more named options for the conversion.
Currently the "copies", "page-ranges", "print-color-mode", and "sides" options are supported.
See the NAMED OPTIONS section for more information.
.TP 5
.B \-v
Increases the verbosity for any diagnostics.
.SH NAMED OPTIONS
The following named options are supported:
.TP 5
.B copies
Specifies the number of copies that should be produced.
.TP 5
.B page-ranges
Selects a single range of pages to check.
For example, the value "5-12" selects pages 5 through 12.
.TP 5
.B print-color-mode
Specifies the color mode as "auto" (automatic), "monochrome" (grayscale), or "color".
.TP 5
.B sides
Specifies whether to do 1-sided printing ("one-sided") or 2-sided printing ("two-sided-long-edge" for portrait and "two-sided-short-edge" for landscape).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B ippdoclint
sends all messages to the standard error.
Each message is prefixed with "ERROR", "INFO", or "DEBUG" depending on the level of verbosity.
.B ippdoclint
also sends "STATE" and "ATTR" messages corresponding to IPP "job-state-reasons" keywords and Job Status attributes.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The
.B ippdoclint
program returns 0 if the input file is correctly formatted and 1 otherwise.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B ippdoclint
recognizes the following environment variables:
.TP 5
.B CONTENT_TYPE
Specifies the MIME media type of the input file.
.TP 5
.B IPP_xxx
Specifies the value of the "xxx" Job Template attribute, where "xxx" is converted to uppercase.
For example, the "copies" Job Template attribute is stored as the "IPP_COPIES" environment variable.
.TP 5
.B IPP_xxx_DEFAULT
Specifies the default value of the corresponding "xxx-default" Printer Description attribute, where "xxx" is converted to uppercase.
For example, the "copies-default" Printer Description attribute is stored as the "IPP_COPIES_DEFAULT" environment variable.
.TP 5
.B SERVER_LOGLEVEL
Specifies the log level (verbosity) as "error", "info", or "debug".
.SH EXAMPLES
Check a PDF file:
.nf

    ippdoclint filename.pdf
.fi
.LP
Check a JPEG file:
.nf

    ippdoclint filename.jpg
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ipptransform (7),
.BR ipptransform3d (7),
PWG Internet Printing Protocol Workgroup (http://www.pwg.org/ipp)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2018-2019 by the IEEE-ISTO Printer Working Group.
