.\"
.\" ippproxy man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2014-2018 by the IEEE-ISTO Printer Working Group.
.\" Copyright © 2014-2018 by Apple Inc.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH ippproxy 8 "ippsample" "15 March 2018" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
ippproxy \- a simple ipp proxy client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ippproxy
[
.B \-\-help
] [
.B \-\-version
] [
.B \-d
.I device-uri
] [
.B \-m
.I mime/type
] [
.B \-p
.I password
] [
.B \-u
.I user
] [
.B \-v[vv]
]
.I infrastructure-printer-uri
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ippproxy
is a simple IPP proxy client conforming to the IPP Shared Infrastructure Extensions (INFRA) specification. It can be used to proxy access to a local IPP printer through an Infrastructure Printer such as
.BR ippserver (8).
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are recognized by
.B ippproxy:
.TP 5
.B \-\-help
Show program help.
.TP 5
.B \-\-version
Show program version.
.TP 5
\fB\-d \fIdevice-uri\fR
Specifies the local device using its URI.
.B ippproxy
supports "ipp", "ipps", and "socket" URIs.
.TP 5
\fB\-m \fImime/types\fR
Specifies the output format as a MIME media type.
.B ippproxy
supports "application/vnd.hp-pcl" (HP PCL), "image/pwg-raster" (PWG Raster), and "image/urf" (Apple Raster).
The default is to choose an output format automatically.
.TP 5
\fB\-p \fIpassword\fR
Specifies the password to use when authenticating with the Infrastructure Printer.
.TP 5
\fB\-u \fIuser\fR
Specifies the user name to use when authenticating with the Infrastructure Printer.
.TP 5
.B \-v[vvv]
Be (very) verbose when logging activity to the standard output.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The
.B ippproxy
program returns 1 if it is unable to process the command-line arguments or connect to either the infrastructure or local printers.
Otherwise
.B ippproxy
will run continuously until terminated.
.SH CONFORMING TO
The
.B ippproxy
program conforms to PWG Candidate Standard 5100.18: IPP Shared Infrastructure Extensions (INFRA).
.SH EXAMPLE
Run
.B ippproxy
with an infrastructure URI of "ipps://host.example.com/ipp/print" and a local URI of "ipp://10.0.1.42/ipp/print":
.nf

    ippproxy -d ipp://10.0.1.42/ipp/print ipps://host.example.com/ipp/print
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ippserver (8),
PWG Internet Printing Protocol Workgroup (http://www.pwg.org/ipp)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2014-2018 by the IEEE-ISTO Printer Working Group.
Copyright \[co] 2007-2018 by Apple Inc.
