.\"
.\" ipptransform man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2016-2019 by the IEEE-ISTO Printer Working Group.
.\" Copyright © 2016-2019 by Apple Inc.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH ipptransform 1 "ippsample" "2019-05-17" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
ipptransform \- convert document data to alternate formats
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ipptransform
[
.B \-\-help
] [
.B \-d
.I device-uri
] [
.B \-f
.I output-filename
] [
.B \-i
.I input/format
] [
.B \-m
.I output/format
] [
.B \-o
.I "name=value [... name=value]"
] [
.B \-r
.I resolution[,...,resolution]
] [
.B \-s
.I {flipped|manual-tumble|normal|rotated}
] [
.B \-t
.I type[,...,type]
] [
.B \-v
]
.I filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ipptransform
converts the input file into the output format and optionally sends the output to a network printer.
.B ipptransform
is normally run by
.BR ippserver (8)
to convert document data for printing.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are recognized by
.B ipptransform:
.TP 5
.B \-\-help
Shows program help.
.TP 5
.BI \-d \ device-uri
Specifies an output device as a URI.
Currently only the "ipp", "ipps", and "socket" URI schemes are supported, for example "socket://10.0.1.42" to send print data to an AppSocket printer at IP address 10.0.1.42.
.TP 5
.BI \-i \ input/format
Specifies the MIME media type of the input file.
Currently the "application/pdf" (PDF) and "image/jpeg" (JPEG) MIME media types are supported.
.TP 5
.BI \-m \ output/format
Specifies the MIME media type of the output file.
Current the "application/vnd.hp-pcl" (HP PCL) and "image/pwg-raster" (PWG Raster) MIME media types are supported.
.TP 5
.BI \-o \ "name=value [... name=value]"
Specifies one or more named options for the conversion.
Currently the "copies", "media", "media-col", "page-ranges", "print-color-mode", "print-quality", "printer-resolution", and "sides" options are supported.
See the NAMED OPTIONS section for more information.
.TP 5
.BI \-r \ resolution[,...,resolution]
Specifies the supported resolutions.
Resolutions are of the form "NNNdpi" or "NNNxNNNdpi", for example "300dpi" or "600x300dpi".
HP PCL output only supports resolutions of "300dpi" and "600dpi".
.TP 5
.BR \-s \ {flipped|manual-tumble|normal|rotated}
Specifies the coordinate system for the back side of duplex sheets.
.TP 5
.BR \-t \ type[,...,type]
Specifies the output color spaces and bit depths, separated by commas.
Types include "adobe-rgb_8" and "adobe-rgb_16" for 8-bit and 16-bit AdobeRGB, "black_1" and "black_8" for 1-bit and 8-bit black, "cmyk_8" for 8-bit CMYK, "sgray_1" and "sgray_8" for 1-bit and 8-bit grayscale with a 2.2 gamma correction, and "srgb_8" for 8-bit sRGB color.
Run
.B ipptransform
with the
.I \-\-help
option to see the list of supported color spaces and bit depths.
.TP 5
.B \-v
Increases the verbosity for any diagnostics.
.SH NAMED OPTIONS
The following named options are supported:
.TP 5
.B copies
Specifies the number of copies to produce.
.TP 5
.B media
Specifies the media size as a PWG standardized media size name.
For example, US Letter (8.5x11in) is "na_letter_8.5x11in" and ISO A4 is "iso_a4_210x297mm".
.TP 5
.B media-col
Specifies the media size as a collection.
Both the "media-size" and "media-size-name" members can be used to specify the size.
For example, both "media-col={media-size={x-dimension=21000 y-dimension=29700}}" and "media-col={media-size-name=iso_a4_210x297mm}" specify ISO A4 media.
.TP 5
.B page-ranges
Selects a single range of pages to print.
For example, the value "5-12" selects pages 5 through 12.
.TP 5
.B print-color-mode
Specifies the color mode as "auto" (automatic), "monochrome" (grayscale), or "color".
.TP 5
.B print-quality
Specifies the print quality with value 3 (draft), 4 (normal), or 5 (high/best).
.TP 5
.B print-scaling
Specifies the scaling to use when converting image files.
The values "auto", "fit", and "fill" are supported.
.TP 5
.B printer-resolution
Specifies the print resolution using one of the supported print resolutions.
.TP 5
.B sides
Specifies whether to do 1-sided printing ("one-sided") or 2-sided printing ("two-sided-long-edge" for portrait and "two-sided-short-edge" for landscape).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B ipptransform
sends all messages to the standard error.
Each message is prefixed with "ERROR", "INFO", or "DEBUG" depending on the level of verbosity.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The
.B ipptransform
program returns 0 if the input file is converted successfully and 1 otherwise.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B ipptransform
recognizes the following environment variables:
.TP 5
.B CONTENT_TYPE
Specifies the MIME media type of the input file.
.TP 5
.B DEVICE_URI
Specifies the output device as a URI.
.TP 5
.B DOCUMENT_NAME
Specifies the title of the input file.
.TP 5
.B IPP_xxx
Specifies the value of the "xxx" Job Template attribute, where "xxx" is converted to uppercase.
For example, the "media" Job Template attribute is stored as the "IPP_MEDIA" environment variable.
.TP 5
.B IPP_xxx_DEFAULT
Specifies the default value of the corresponding "xxx-default" Printer Description attribute, where "xxx" is converted to uppercase.
For example, the "media-default" Printer Description attribute is stored as the "IPP_MEDIA_DEFAULT" environment variable.
.TP 5
.B IPP_PWG_RASTER_DOCUMENT_RESOLUTION_SUPPORTED
Lists the supported output resolutions.
.TP 5
.B IPP_PWG_RASTER_DOCUMENT_SHEET_BACK
Specifies the coordinate system of the back side of duplex sheets.
.TP 5
.B IPP_PWG_RASTER_DOCUMENT_TYPE_SUPPORTED
Lists the supported output color spaces and bit depths.
.TP 5
IPPTRANSFORM_MAX_RASTER
Specifies the maximum number of bytes to use when generating raster data.
The default is 16MB.
.TP 5
.B OUTPUT_TYPE
Specifies the MIME media type of the output file.
.TP 5
.B SERVER_LOGLEVEL
Specifies the log level (verbosity) as "error", "info", or "debug".
.SH EXAMPLES
Print a PDF file to a PCL printer at 10.0.1.42:
.nf

    ipptransform -d socket://10.0.1.42 -m application/vnd.hp-pcl \\
        filename.pdf
.fi
.LP
Print a PDF file to an IPP Everywhere printer at 10.0.1.42:
.nf

    ipptransform -d ipp://10.0.1.42/ipp/print -m image/pwg-raster \\
        filename.pdf
.fi
.LP
Convert a JPEG file to sRGB PWG Raster at 600dpi:
.nf

    ipptransform -m image/pwg-raster -r 600dpi -t sgray_8,srgb_8 \\
        filename.jpg >filename.ras
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ippdoclint (7),
.BR ippserver (8),
.BR ipptool (1),
.BR ipptransform3d (7)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2016-2019 by the IEEE-ISTO Printer Working Group.
Copyright \[co] 2016-2019 by Apple Inc.
