.\"
.\" ipptransform3d man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2016-2019 by the IEEE-ISTO Printer Working Group.
.\" Copyright © 2016-2019 by Apple Inc.
.\"
.\" Licensed under Apache License v2.0.  See the file "LICENSE" for more
.\" information.
.\"
.TH ipptransform3d 7 "ippsample" "2019-05-17" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
ipptransform3d \- convert 3d document data to alternate formats
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ipptransform3d
[
.B \-\-help
] [
.B \-d
.I device-uri
] [
.B \-i
.I input/format
] [
.B \-m
.I output/format;machine=name
] [
.B \-o
.I "name=value [... name=value]"
] [
.B \-v
]
.I filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ipptransform3d
converts the input file into the output format and optionally sends the output to a USB (serial) printer.
.B ipptransform3d
is normally run by
.BR ippserver (8)
to convert document data for printing.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are recognized by
.B ipptransform3d:
.TP 5
.B \-\-help
Shows program help.
.TP 5
.BI \-d \ device-uri
Specifies an output device as a URI.
Currently only the "usbserial" URI scheme is supported, for example "usbserial:///dev/ttyACM0" to send print data to an attached USB printer on Linux.
.TP 5
.BI \-i \ input/format
Specifies the MIME media type of the input file.
Currently the "model/3mf" (3MF) and "application/sla" (STL) MIME media types are supported.
.TP 5
.BI \-m \ output/format;machine=name
Specifies the MIME media type of the output file.
Currently only the "application/g-code" (G-code) MIME media type is supported.
The "machine=name" parameter specifies a machine-specific variant such as "ultimaker2".
.TP 5
.BI \-o \ "name=value [... name=value]"
Specifies one or more named options for the conversion.
Currently the "materials-col", "platform-temperature", "print-accuracy", "print-base", "print-quality", and "print-supports" options are supported.
See the NAMED OPTIONS section for more information.
.TP 5
.B \-v
Increases the verbosity for any diagnostics.
.SH NAMED OPTIONS
The following named options are supported:
.TP 5
.B materials-col
Specifies the material(s) to use.
Each value is surrounded by curley braces and contains a list of material properties and their values, e.g., '{material-diameter=285 material-type="pla" ...}'.
The "material-diameter", "material-fill-density", "material-purpose", "material-rate", "material-rate-units", "material-shell-thickness", "material-temperature", and "material-type" properties are supported.
.TP 5
.B platform-temperature
Specifies the temperature of the build platform in degrees Celsius.
.TP 5
.B print-accuracy
Specifies the dimensional accuracy requirements for the print.
For example, a horizontal accuracy of 0.1mm and vertical accuracy of 0.05mm is '{x-accuracy=100 y-accuracy=100 z-accuracy=50 accuracy-units=um}'.
.TP 5
.B print-base
Specifies whether brims, rafts, or skirts should be printed.
The values 'none', 'brim', 'raft', and 'skirt' are supported.
.TP 5
.B print-quality
Specifies the print quality with value 3 (draft), 4 (normal), or 5 (high/best).
.TP 5
.B print-supports
Specifies whether supports are printed.
The values 'none', 'material', and 'standard' are supported.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B ipptransform3d
sends all messages to the standard error.
Each message is prefixed with "ERROR", "INFO", or "DEBUG" depending on the level of verbosity.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The
.B ipptransform3d
program returns 0 if the input file is converted successfully and 1 otherwise.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B ipptransform3d
recognizes the following environment variables:
.TP 5
.B CONTENT_TYPE
Specifies the MIME media type of the input file.
.TP 5
.B DEVICE_URI
Specifies the output device as a URI.
.TP 5
.B DOCUMENT_NAME
Specifies the title of the input file.
.TP 5
.B IPP_xxx
Specifies the value of the "xxx" Job Template attribute, where "xxx" is converted to uppercase.
For example, the "materials-col" Job Template attribute is stored as the "IPP_MATERIALS_COL" environment variable.
.TP 5
.B IPP_xxx_DEFAULT
Specifies the default value of the corresponding "xxx-default" Printer Description attribute, where "xxx" is converted to uppercase.
For example, the "materials-col-default" Printer Description attribute is stored as the "IPP_MATERIALS_COL_DEFAULT" environment variable.
.TP 5
.B OUTPUT_TYPE
Specifies the MIME media type of the output file.
For 'application/g-code' the "flavor" media type parameter specifies the variant of G-code to produce: 'bfb', 'griffin', 'mach3', 'makerbot', 'reprap' (default), 'reprap-volumatric', and 'ultimaker' are currently supported.
.TP 5
.B SERVER_LOGLEVEL
Specifies the log level (verbosity) as "error", "info", or "debug".
.SH EXAMPLES
Print a 3MF file to a G-code printer connected via USB on Linux using the default options:
.nf

    ipptransform3d -d usbserial:///dev/usbACM0 -m application/g-code \\
        filename.3mf
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ippdoclint (7),
.BR ippserver (8),
.BR ipptool (1),
.BR ipptransform (7)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2016-2019 by the IEEE-ISTO Printer Working Group.
Copyright \[co] 2016-2019 by Apple Inc.
